**一个社会科学家眼中的“计算社会科学”**

****

**

![](http://www.swarmagents.cn/files/201305051326_Picture-24.png)

**

****

**

时间：2013年5月12日 15:00-17:00

  

地点：蕴味咖啡，海淀区学清路768创意产业园（圣熙8号对面）内。[具体路线指南](http://www.douban.com/photos/album/92
319672/)

  

**视频：**<http://v.youku.com/v_show/id_XNTYzMTE2Njky.html>,<http://v.youku.com/v_show/id_XNTYzMTE2Njky.html>

**

  

**

**  
**

**  
**

中文简介：

  

计算社会科学这个领域在过去的几年中，因着互联网技术的发展和学科交融，迅速崛起。它提倡使用计算机来抓取和处理有关人类行为的大规模数据集，并使用网络分析等技术来
处理这些数据，以期获得对人类的社会、经济和政治行为的理解。在本讲座中，主讲人将会介绍以下内容：

  

1\. 主讲人自己使用社会媒体数据对人类个体行为进行的研究；

2\. 计算社会科学在澳洲国立的大学的发展；

3\. 计算社会科学对传统社会科学带来的机遇与挑战。

英文简介：Computational Social Science is an emerging field involving the
application of network science and computational approaches to the analysis of
large-scale datasets collected from the Internet, with the goal of providing
new insights into social, economic and political behaviour. In this talk, I
discuss the opportunities and challenges associated with computational social
science, drawing on nearly 25 years experience as an empirical social
scientist (the last 10+ years in the area of network science and web science).
I will provide some examples of my work on using social media data to study
individual behaviour in information networks, and will outline some activities
in computational social science at the Australian National University.

  

主讲人：[Robert Ackland](https://researchers.anu.edu.au/researchers/ackland-
rj)，澳洲国立大学人口与社会学研究所副教授。

  

Robert Ackland is an Associate Professor in the Australian Demographic and
Social Research Institute at the Australian National University. He has
degrees in economics from the University of Melbourne, Yale University (where
he was a Fulbright Scholar) and the ANU, where he gained his PhD in 2001.
Prior to commencing his PhD, which was on index number theory in the context
of cross-country comparisons of income and poverty, Robert worked as a
researcher in the Australian Department of Immigration and a consultant
economist in the Policy Research Department at the World Bank, based in
Washington DC 1995-97. Since 2002 Robert has been working in the fields of
network science, computational social science and web science, with a
particular focus on quantitative analysis of online social and organisational
networks. His research has appeared in journals such as the _Review of
Economics and Statistics_, _Social Networks, Computational Economics, Social
Science Computer Review, _and the _Journal of Social Structure_. Robert leads
the Virtual Observatory for the Study of Online Networks project
([http://voson.anu.edu.au](http://voson.anu.edu.au/)), and teaches courses on
survey statistics, the social science of the Internet and online research
methods in the ANU′s Master of Social Research. He has been chief investigator
on four Australian Research Council grants and in 2007, he was a UK National
Centre for e-Social Science Visiting Fellow and James Martin Visiting Fellow
at the Oxford Internet Institute. In 2011, he was appointed to the Science
Council of the Web Foundation′s Web Index project. His book _Web Social
Science_ (SAGE) will be available in July 2013.  

  

**

